Hello, everyone, welcome back to the course now in this video, we're going to implement some bottom
navigation for the main part of our app.
OK, so we will have basically three screens, one for the feed where we see different posts from different
users.
We have a search screen and we have a kind of a my posts page is not the profile page where we edit
our personal information, but it's the one where we can create new posts for our account.
Now in this video, we're going to focus on the bottom navigation and the issue that I have found while
building this course and while building this application is that I think compose, jetpack compose and
navigation doesn't work really well with the current iteration of bottom navigation.
OK, so I've tried for a few days to make it work, but it seems to have some issues when you have an
application that has both authentication with separate screens and screens with bottom navigation.
So I've tried a lot of different things.
I found too many issues, so I've decided to kind of build a custom bottom navigation functionality
for this app in particular.
So that's what we're going to do in this video.
OK, we're going to build a custom bottom navigation functionality, which is actually quite easy to
implement in jetpack compose.
All right.
So the first step that we need to take is we need to create these three screens that we want to display.
We already have one of them.
We have the feed screen and we will update this feed screen as well.
But let's go ahead and create a couple more.
So I'm going to create a new file, make sure it's a file, and I'm going to call this something like
search screen.
OK.
And I'm going to just create the composable for now fun search screen, and I'm going to pass the nav
controller and the view model of type I, the I view model.
OK, we're going to just leave it empty for now because we will add stuff to it later on in this video.
And also, let's go and get let's go ahead and create a new file.
And this one is going to be my posts screen.
And again, we're just going to add the composable fund my posts screen with the MAV controller and
the VM.
All right, so far, so good.
Now we need to add this to our destination screens.
OK, so in main activity in destination screen, we're going to add two more.
So I'm just going to duplicate that.
So this one is going to be search with the root search.
And this one is going to be my posts.
And my posts here, OK?
And we need to add two more composable to Navajos.
So one and two destinations green dot search.
And here we have the composable that we've created search screen.
OK.
And here for the last one, we have my posts and the my posts screen.
All right, so far, so good.
Now let's go ahead and implement a bottom navigation.
So for that, I'm going to create a new file here.
And I'm going to call this bottom.
Navigation menu, let's say.
And that's going to be a file.
So the first thing I need to do, I'm going to create an enum class bottom navigation.
Item.
OK, so this will contain the items that our bottom menu has, this will have a valid icon of type entry
and a valid nav destination, which is of type of destination.
Screen destination screen.
And here we need to add three elements because we have three elements in our menu.
Before we do that, let's go ahead and create three icons for this menu.
OK, so in the drawer bowl, so under resource drawer bowl, I'm going to right click New Vector Asset,
OK, and I'm going to select here a, let's say, home.
And this will have the icon for home.
OK, I'm going to call this.
I see underscore home.
This will correspond to the feed screen.
OK, so I have I see home.
Let's go ahead and create a new one, a vector asset.
And here let's do search and we have a magnifying glass.
I see search.
Finished that.
And finally, for my posts, we're going to have the kind of image of a user or a person, so let's
search for person.
I have the icon here and here I have I see posts.
OK.
Remember, this is different from profile.
It's just the the screen where I create new posts.
All right.
So we have the icons.
Now let's go and create the elements of this enum.
So the first one is going to be feed.
And here I will pass the ah dot drobo dot.
I see underscore.
I think it's home and we need to import the R class now.
Be careful importing this.
You need the one from your project.
OK, you might import by mistake some other file, and the next destination is going to be destination
screen dot feed.
All right, so that's feed now for search.
We have our dot draw bill.
I need a comma at the end here.
Draw bow dot by sea search and destination screen dot search.
And then finally, I have posts with our the Drobo dots, I see posts and destination screen dot my
posts.
Okay, all good.
Now we're going to create a composable.
Fun bottom.
Navigation menu.
Now this is going to take a selected item of type, bottom navigation item and it's going to take a
nav controller of type nav controller.
So here I will have a row.
We're now building the bottom navigation, right?
So row, it's going to have a modifier modifier dot filled max width.
OK, Phil Mack's with them dot rep content height.
OK.
That's what else we need, we need some padding.
We're going to have a top party of four deep and I'm going to add a background of color thought white.
OK, I need to import the DP, all right, so I have my row and inside this row, I need to pass the
items.
OK, so here I have four item in button navigation item dot values.
So I'm going to take all elements from here and here I can see an image where the painter is painter
resource and the ID is item the icon.
The description is no.
And I have a modifier.
OK.
Dot size, first of all, the size is going to be 40 dpi.
The padding is going to be five dpi.
Then the wait is going to be one f, so I want all the images to take up the same amount of space,
so I'm just going to add one to all of them.
And then finally, it's going to be clickable and when we click it, we're going to navigate to nav
controller.
And item.
Dot destination.
OK, easy enough.
And then I want to add another thing, which is a color filter, and this color filter will basically
depend if we're on the selected item or not.
I misspelled this.
So if we're on the selected item, I want to add a black color.
Otherwise, this is going to be a gray color.
So we can say if item equals selected item, then color filter.
Dots tent is going to have a color dot black health.
Color filter.
Actually, we can change this a little bit, we can put it right, you know what, let's leave it like
this.
So color filter dot tint colored dot grey.
So you can reduce this by putting the if inside the color filter dot tint.
But you know, it's pretty much the same thing.
Let me put this down here.
OK.
So I think that is all for the navigation menu, so we can now use this navigation menu in our screens.
So let me open up feed screen.
And instead of this text, I can add a couple of things, so I want to add a column that will fill up
the screen.
OK, so modifier equals modifier dot fill max size.
OK, and inside here I want to have a bottom navigation menu with the selected item.
Bottom navigation item, dot feed and map controller.
Now, if we leave it like this, this will simply be at the top of the screen.
So I want to have a column inside my column that will basically take up the whole space apart from the
navigation menu, so it will put the navigation menu at the bottom.
So Modifier equals modifier Dot's weight.
One, if and inside this column, let's just put a text so that we have just another confirmation that
we are on the feed screen.
OK, so that will basically have a column that will take up the most of the space with a screen, with
a text.
And at the bottom, we have our navigation.
OK, so I'm just going to copy this and I'm going to put it in the search and let's just modify the
selected item.
Here is going to be search and the text is going to be search screen.
The rest stays the same and I have my posts again, paste that my this posts and my posts screen.
OK.
And I think that is sufficient.
Basically, the system will send us to the feed screen and the feed screen will have a bottom navigation
that we can use to navigate between the different screens.
So let's go ahead and run this application and see what we get.
All right, so the application is running now.
I may have let me just check the ITV model.
Yes, we have sign out, so I'm just going to comment this out for the next one, but for now, I'm
just going to go with Alex.
Or is it John?
I think it's John gmail.com, the user.
The user name doesn't matter at the moment unless logging.
And that's just send us to the feed screen and we should see a confirmation text here.
There we go.
Log in success, we might want to remove that at some point.
Feed screen and we have our bottom navigation view.
So if I click on search, that will send me to the search screen and you can see that the color has
turned to black here and the rest is gray.
OK, so again, here the color is different when I move to a different screen.
OK, before we end, let me just remove that log in successful.
So in the view model, log in success.
I'm just going to comment this out because we don't really need it.
We get the confirmation that it's successful when we move to the correct screen.
All right.
So that is all for this video and in the next two videos, we're going to start to implement some Instagram
specific functionality.
I will see you there.